MikMod 2.09 Beta
================

MikMod 2.09 Beta is a beta release of the Portable MikMod Soundsystem, a
library for playing music & soundfx on various systems & compilers.

Why a beta? well I just wanted to release a preview of what I'm doing right
now and see what kinds of reactions I get. 

The most important changes are:

- Portable code, compiles on DOS (Borland C, Watcom DOS4GW/pmodew) Win95 (32
  bits, Borland 4.5) and Linux. Other makefiles are coming soon (DJGPP, OS2)

- Stable XM loader/player

- New software mixing, also does bidi loops & interpolation

- New & simplified directory layout

- New drivers: Linux voxware, Win95 sounddevice, soundblaster AWE,
  file output driver.

For the next version I plan to make new assembly mixing routines to replace
the portable (but slow) C mixing. And for those of you who want to use mikmod
in real-mode DOS, EMS support will return in the next release.


Shareware or PD ?
=================
                  
As of version 1.90 and higher (which some people received) MikMod is 
SHAREWARE. Now don't format your harddisk.. This only means that you have to 
give me a small teensy-weensy one-time $25 US registration fee if you want to 
use MikMod COMMERCIALLY. Basically the rule is: IF YOU'RE ASKING MONEY FOR 
THE PRODUCT YOU'RE USING MIKMOD WITH, YOU HAVE TO REGISTER. See REGISTER.FRM 
for more details on how to register.

- Registering MikMod is for binaries only. You're not allowed to distribute 
the MikMod sources or parts of it in _any_ form. If you do want to distribute
the sources on a commercial basis, you'll need special permission of the 
author (Jean-Paul Mikkers).

- Registering MikMod gives you the right to sell an unlimited number of 
copies of the product you're using it for.. pretty flexible huh?

- Registering MikMod 2.09B means that you're registering all versions of 
mikmod between 2.00 and any updates until version 2.99. This allows for 
bugfixes and updates without the need to register again.

- A MikMod registration cannot be transferred from one person to another, or 
from one person to a company, or from one company to another company.

- Any contributors to MikMod (bug-fixes, new loaders, new drivers) will get 
automatic registration for ALL MikMod versions. I'll decide if your 
contribution is good enough for registration.

- If you're a very poor shareware author and you want to use MikMod, send 
some email with your story :). I'm always willing to negotiate a lower price, 
or some form of alternative payment (like sample CD's, or software or Cindy 
Crawford videos =).

- Capacala members can pay the $25 US with an amount of condoms of the same 
price (unused please, without holes =)

- It's not illegal to register MikMod even when you don't use it commercially 
=P

So you see, I'm not doing this to get rich.. but it would be nice if I could 
buy a couple of CD's from the registration money, or at least get the money I 
spent on buying my SB16.


Example sources
===============

This version of MikMod includes three sample sources:


        MIKWAV: Demonstrates the use of the wav-loading capabilities of 
                mikmod to use for soundeffects.
                
        MIKMOD: The modplayer.
        
        MIKCVT: Utility to convert your modules to the UNIMOD(tm) format.
                           


How to contact me
=================

Please send your questions, registration forms, comments, bugreports,
bugfixes, loaders, drivers, soundcards etc. to:


        Email: 
               mikmak@via.nl (preferred)
        
               mikmak@stack.urc.tue.nl
        
        
        Snail-mail:
               
               Jean-Paul Mikkers
               Godartstr. 16
               5932AX Tegelen,
               The Netherlands

        Phone:  
               +31 (0)77-3732736


Legal Stuff
===========

This software is SHAREWARE.

Disclaimer:

The author (Jean-Paul Mikkers) specifically disclaims all warranties,
expressed or implied, including but not limited to implied warranties of
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose with respect to defects
in the software and documentation.

In no event shall the author be liable for any loss of profit or damage,
including but not limited to special, incidental, or consequential damages.

All product names, trademarks and registered trademarks contained in this
document are the property of their respective holders.

